1. Write a query to get Product name and quantity/unit.
2. Write a query to get current Product list (Product ID and name).
3. Write a query to get discontinued Product list (Product ID and name).
4. Write a query to get most expense and least expensive Product list (name and unit price).
5. Write a query to get Product list (id, name, unit price) where current products cost less than $20.
6. Write a query to get Product list (id, name, unit price) where products cost between $15 and $25.
7. Write a query to get Product list (name, unit price) of above average price.
8. Write a query to get Product list (name, unit price) of ten most expensive products.
9. Write a query to count current and discontinued products.
10. Write a query to get Product list (name, units on order , units in stock) of stock is less than the quantity on order.

---

1. How many customers do we have in our database?
2. How many of our customer names begin with the letter "b"?
3. How many of our customer names contain the letter "s" ?
4. How many customers do we have in each city?
5. What are the top three cities where we have our most customers?
6. Who has been our top customer - please list CustomerID, CompanyName, ContactName for the customer that we have sold the most to?
7. Who has been our top customer - please list CustomerID, CompanyName in the year 1997?
8. Name the top 3 countries that we ship our orders to?
9. Which shipper do we use the most to ship our orders out through?
10. List the following employee information (EmployeeID, LastName, FirstName, ManagerLastName, ManagerFirstName)
11. What are the last names of all employees who were born in the month of November?
12. List each employee (lastname, firstname, territory) and sort the list by territory and then by employee last name. Remember employees may work for more than one territory.
13. In terms of sales value, what has been our best selling product of all time?
14. In terms of sales value, and only include products that have at least been sold once, which has been our worst selling product of all time? 
15. In terms of sales value, which month has been traditionally best for sales?
16. What is the name of our best sales person?
17. Product report (productID, ProductName, Supplier Name, Product Category). Order the list by product category.
18. Produce a count of the employees by each sales region
19. List the dollar values for sales by region?
20. What is the average value of a sales order?
21. List orders (OrderID, OrderDate, Customer Name) where the total order value is greater than the average value of a sales order?
22. Produce a customer report (must also include those we have not yet done business with) showing CustomerID, Customer name and total sales made to that customer
23. List all products that need to be re-ordered. Do not include discontinued products in this report.
24. List all customers that we made a sale to in the year 1996
25. List all customers that we did not make a sale to in the year 1996

---

https://www.chegg.com/homework-help/questions-and-answers/sql-assignment-2-use-northwind-database-sql-assignments-going-forward-1-list-complete-cust-q66345772#question-transcript
1. List the complete customers table.
2. List all products. Sort by unitprice then by productname.
3. Show the ProductID, ProductName, UnitPrice, UnitsInStock and UnitsOnOrder for all products that have been discontinued with a value greater than or equal to 1.
4. List the Customerld, the Company Name and the first 8 characters in the company name using the customer table.
5. List the Customerld and Freight charges for the customers with the 10 largest freight charges. Sort Freight charges in descending order.
6. List the CustomerID and Company Name for Customers that contain ‘Market in their name. 
7. Northwind has finally decided to give all employees an email address. The domain name will be northwind.com. 
   Create a list of employee first and last names and email addresses in the format of first initial. Lastname@northwind.com. 
   (Note the period between first initial and last name) Their ISP requires all email address to be submitted in lowercase. Sort by last name in ascending order. 
8. List all customers who live in the following countries: France, Germany, USA or UK. Use the IN Keyword. Sort by Country.
9. List the largest 5 percent of freight charges along with the CustomerID.
10. The employee table Notes column contains a great deal of information concerning each employee including the languages they speak. 
    Northwind needs someone who speaks German to represent the company at a meeting. List the LastName, HomePhone and Notes of any employee with German in the notes
11. List all orders with an order date in July 2014. Use the Between Keyword
12. List all orders with an order date in July 2014. DO NOT use the between Keyword
13. List all orders with no shipped date
14. List the CustomerID from the orders table. List each CustomerID only once. Sort in descending order.
15. List the Customerld, City, Region and Postal Code for all customers. Sort by city, then by customer ID